AVC – Team One 

20/04/16
Today we wrote our AVC Plan out and collected our hardware, that was the only goals that we set for this week as there is not much of the week left, which means we achieved all of our goals for week 1. We also decided on people’s roles. We also aimed to have Dash set up GitHub repo, Kate set up an achievement monitoring document and Nitay start up the Pi.

Break down of achievements:
Dash - set up Git repo and Read me
Kate - took photos of the course and helped with the AVC plan (and set up this document)
Matt - wrote out the AVC plan and helped work on the Pi.
Nitay - ssh'd into rPI, got the camera working/displaying on monitor and has the wheels moving.
Chintan - worked on the AVC plan - specifically allocating tasks and conflicts.
Patrick - absent

Goals decided on for subsequent weeks:
We decided that for our week break we decided to limit people’s tasks to  brainstorming and coming up with ideas as 3 of our 6 members are away for most or all of the week. Our goal is for everyone to have ideas for how to approach each quadrant and an understanding of what needs to happen.

For the first week back we decided that we would confirm a plan of action for both our software and hardware and to start trialling and prototyping our ideas.
By the end of the week Chintan & Dash will aim to have code to make the robot move in a straight line.
Everyone will have committed something to github.
Nitay & Matt will have come up with a chassis design.
Kate will help where needed, and ensure everyone is on track.

04/05/16
Today we discussed different options for programming approaches and decided to start with a trial and error method that while it would take longer for the robot, it would be easier to code so we can have it as a backup in case our other ideas don’t work. Our other idea is to see if a branch is a dead end at the intersection with deeper image processing. This will all depend on the amount of time we have. We also discussed the possibility of having 3 sensors vs the camera judging the wall distance in the maze. The camera would be harder to code for, with the sensors being easier, but the sensors are more likely to go over budget, and we aren’t yet sure how to budget for the sensors, as we don’t have a run down of the ‘Arthur Dollars’ - upon consultation we have found that the main purpose of the ‘Arthur dollar’ system is to prevent us from using a huge number of sensors, so we are unlikely to go over budget. We also realised that the short range sensors don’t measure a decent enough size for the walls, so we are going to use medium range ones, which we originally intended for the front. These are too short to use for the front, so we are probably going to have to use the camera for the front of the robot.

Ideas:
From quad 1-3 to 4 change: have a while statement that breaks when there are walls on either side of it, as the entrance of the maze has a wall on either side.
Have the robot follow the left most line of white pixels rather than the whole thing.

Accomplishments 

Nitay and Matt have made a chassis design with the help of Patrick. The design will be uploaded to Github by Matt.

Chintan worked on code for moving the robot move in a straight line with help from Nitay. They got the signal working, but then had issues with the rPi. After tried trialling, testing and some help but in the end they still never managed to get the code to work on the rPi.

Dash wrote out a program plan, to give us a broad idea of what we aim to have the program look like.

Kate wrote up the ideas, and decisions from last week and worked on assigning tasks for the next week.

Tasks for completion by next week
Kate        Work on the code
Dash        Will have a complete program plan.
Chintan    Work on the code
Matt        Will work on getting a chassis design uploaded to Github.
Patrick        Work on the code
Nitay        Work on the code

11/05/16
We have made the decision to up our meetings to two a week, and to set more specific goals to ensure that we will get everything done in time. Meetings will be on Thursdays from 4 to whenever. Nitay will struggle to make these, but this is the best time to get as many as possible.
The meeting for this week will be for us to bullet point out our progress report and therefore clarify how far along each aspect of the project is.

Today we (Dash, Nitay, Kate and Chintan) got the camera to record the image at regular intervals and record the location of the white space. We got the motors moving and turning relative to the location of the white space.

Patrick and Matt worked on making a 3D model of the chassis that can be 3D printed.

Thursday meeting - we wrote out bullet points for each heading for the progress report. We then tried to test the networking code and it failed miserably for reasons we aren't sure of. We did get the robots wheels moving relative to a white line though.

18/05/16

Printing of the chassis will be done by the end of today, leaving only the camera and sensor mounts to be printed.
Meetings will be on Wednesday AND Thursday this week to ensure everyone can make one.
Code for opening the gate was completed but not tested.

Patrick was sick and didnt make the meetings on wednesday or thursday.

Code for the gate was trialled and corrected by Kate and Chintan and now works.

Thursday


//please add more, I updatewd this last week but obviously didn't commit properly as the update didn't go through.

25/05/16 - 26/05/16
Wednesday
Hardware was finished (a back wheel holder printed and marbles got)
Kate,Chintan and Dash worked on the code and had lots of issues with only turning left.

In the afternoon Chin and Dash worked continued to work on it to no avail.

Thursday
Kate and Chintan both rewrote code for the line follower to try different logic. Kate's linefollower.cpp was the closest, however, even with trial and error Bambi still didnt follow the line properly. Three possible causes were decided upon, camera logic, hardware issue with wheels or other logic. 

Matt was sick and Nitay cant make thursdays.

Patrick drew designs of the robot for reports.

In the evening Kate created another possible set of code excluding the ngative logic which will be tested by those meeting on Friday.

Friday
The line following code was made to work.

Monday 
Kate, Matt, Nitay and Dash worked on code that trialled the PID and intersection code. PID was removed as it stuffed everything up and the intersection code managed to work about 50% of the time. The gate code was also included so that the robot could now make it to 75% half of the time.

Tuesday 
Nitay, Dash and Kate worked on the maze code and managed to get Bambi going straight and turning right, but not left. THey then later worked on it with Chintan and got the turns smoother and stopped it from going right at a left hand intersection, however, it then just seemed to have a seizure when it reached a left hand turn.
Dash and Nitay worked on integrating all the code and found it to be worse??? TBC
